# 泛型

# Generic(泛型)

## Class&Interface(泛型类或者接口)

泛型类或者接口可以被继承或者实现的：

``` java
public interface IBaseDao<T>{
  public void save(T t);
  public List<T> getAll();
  ...
}
public class UserDaoImpl implements IBaseDao<User>{
  public void save(User t);
  public List<User> getAll();
  ...
} 
```
## Put-Set Principle
Consider a bunch of bananas. This is a Collection<? extends Fruit> in that it's a collection of a particular kind of fruit - but you don't know (from that declaration) what kind of fruit it's a collection of. You can get an item from it and know it will definitely be a fruit, but you can't add to it - you might be trying to add an apple to a bunch of bananas, which would definitely be wrong. You can add null to it, as that will be a valid value for any kind of fruit.

Now consider a fruitbowl. This is a Collection<? super Banana>, in that it's a collection of some type "greater than" Banana (for instance, Collection<Fruit> or Collection<TropicalFruit>). You can definitely add a banana to this, but if you fetch an item from the bowl you don't know what you'll get - it may well not be a banana. All you know for sure is that it will be a valid (possibly null) Object reference.

(In general, for Java generics questions, the Java Generics FAQ is an excellent resource which contains the answer to almost anything generics-related you're likely to throw at it.)


# Java Generics


I have read O'Reilly book, in that I came to know this **get-put principle**.

> - Use an **extends** wildcard when you only **get** values out of a structure.
> - Use a **super** wildcard when you only **put** values into a structure.
> - And don't use a wildcard when you both want to get and put from/to a structure.

**Exceptions** are:

> - You cannot put anything into a type declared with an **extends** wildcard except for the value**null**, which belongs to every reference type.
> - You cannot get anything out from a type declared with an **super** wildcard except for a value of type **Object**, which is a super type of every reference type.

Consider a bunch of bananas. This is a Collection<? extends Fruit> in that it's a collection of a particular kind of fruit - but you don't know (from that declaration) what kind of fruit it's a collection of. You can get an item from it and know it will definitely be a fruit, but you can't add to it - you might be trying to add an apple to a bunch of bananas, which would definitely be wrong. You can add null to it, as that will be a valid value for any kind of fruit.

Now consider a fruitbowl. This is a Collection<? super Banana>, in that it's a collection of some type "greater than" Banana (for instance, Collection<Fruit> or Collection<TropicalFruit>). You can definitely add a banana to this, but if you fetch an item from the bowl you don't know what you'll get - it may well not be a banana. All you know for sure is that it will be a valid (possibly null) Object reference.

